when you search for some terms like
hotels you tend to see domains like
hotels.com at the top and because of
that you're probably like oh my god it
would be amazing if i owned a exact
match domain name
hey everyone i'm neil patel and today
i'm gonna break down why you shouldn't
buy an exact match domain name
now before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
whenever you google terms like hotels
you may end up seeing sites like
hotels.com at the top
and this may make you think that hey i
need to go out there and spend a ton of
money to buy one of these exact match
domains where the exact keyword that i
want to rank for is the domain name well
hotels.com is a little bit of an anomaly
and most of us including me we can't
replicate that because we just don't
have enough money if you go to
hotels.com
you'll quickly see it's a very large
corporation they run tons and tons of tv
ads they're owned by expedia group which
is a multi-billion dollar publicly
traded company so yes hotels.com is able
to rank really well because they have
the exact match domain name but they've
also created a brand around hotels.com
and here's what i mean by this
if you google for most generic terms
like nurse you'll find that nurse.com
isn't ranking number one it's actually
ranking number three you have nursing
world that's number one then wikipedia
then you have
nurse.com and then medical
news today and the list goes on and on
what you'll end up seeing is
if someone's googling your domain or the
keyword which is the exact match of your
domain and you don't get a lot of clicks
it actually can hurt your rankings
here's what i mean by that if you go
look at my analytics here for
neilpatel.com
i'm getting roughly
4.43 million clicks from google in the
last 28 days one of my most popular
keywords is uber suggests another one is
neil patel
when people are googling uber says 81
of people are actually clicking on my
website so when people google for terms
like uber suggests
you'll see i have the indented listing
and then they'll click on my listing
but what most people don't realize is if
a lot of people skip this listing here
and they went to number two or number
three what would that tell google
it would tell google that hey this
neilpatel.com website
isn't as relevant towards this keyword a
lot of people are skipping over because
they don't like it they don't want to
click on it so if everyone skipped over
my listing and they're not because as
you can see i'm at 81 but hypothetically
imagine if everyone skipped it
it would tell google hey this site
shouldn't rank at the top people don't
like it as much
so then they'll start pushing up the
other sides higher and higher up which
can hurt your rankings
now the point of me breaking this down
to you and telling you this is most
people like i want a generic domain well
unless you have the ad budgets of the
expedias or the hotels.com it doesn't
work that well because you'll end up
being in the same position as nurse.com
and if a lot of people are googling your
domain name but they're not clicking on
your listing let's say if only 20 of
people actually clicked on your listing
instead of that 70 80
what you'll find is your rankings for
all your other pages won't do as well
because it's telling google hey this
site doesn't have strong brand loyalty
people don't love this brand
if you have a strong brand like a nike
you'll start ranking better for all the
other terms out there like shoes and
apparel and stuff like that just like
with me on neilpatel.com i rank for
terms like seo you know i may not be
number one for every term but i'm still
at the top so i'm here number four
and i also rank or number five moz moz
search engine land google then me
and i also rank for many other terms
like if i go type in online marketing
you know i'm number two
and the reason i'm ranking for a lot of
these terms
is because
i have strong click-through rate for
many of my other pages but if your brand
like your brand my brand is neil patel
and uber suggests because i have an app
called uber citizen my name is neil
patel if people aren't clicking through
when they're searching my brand it tells
google that i have low brand loyalty
which hurts my rankings on my overall
website
so if you're going to pick a domain name
don't pick a exact match domain name
it's fine to have your keyword in the
domain but you don't want your domain
name to be a quote-unquote generic
keyword because it can hurt your overall
rankings
if you have any questions about domain
names when it comes to seo feel free and
leave a comment below if you enjoyed
this video like it share it tell the
people about it subscribe to the channel
thank you very much